I would like to answer the question about whether an adopted
child
has to bear the karmic burden of the parents who
adopted them. This is a very
prominent issue, as many people are now
very afraid of the word "
karma" when they hear about it. There are many superstitious
beliefs, such as asking someone to place the roof tiles on someone else's house,
or
selling
the house to another family to perform a ritual to appease the spirits of the deceased. There
are many
superstitious stories from the user Linh Nhi.
I am a Buddhist follower of Ba
Vang Temple and have attended the temple 56 times. I
have a question for you, Venerable Master.
More than ten years ago, in my village, there was a family who had
three daughters. People went to a
fortune teller who said they had to adopt a child to have a son.
When they had a son, they
talked to the parents and said that adopting a
child would bring good fortune, and the parents agreed. I
would like to ask you, Venerable Master, whether I have to bear any
karmic burden for this.  Is it someone else's house? Please,
Ms. Hoan Hy, that's why we are so afraid of the
karmic burden. Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners,
there are cases where families don't have
children, so they adopt a child and then have
children of their own. That's a real thing.
In the law of karma, where does it come from? The couple
benefits from having children, but if they haven't had children yet, they adopt a child.
For example, adopting a child from an
orphanage is a
meritorious deed. The couple must
raise the child for life, creating the merit to have
children and get married. We don't see
anything strange about that. And now,
we Buddhists write offerings to the Three Jewels in
Vinh Phuc. It's also a way of letting
go of the mind. The other thing is, when we raise a person,
when we pronounce the ending,
our merit increases. And when I,
because I can't have a son, I often
go to a house with many sons to
ask for one of those sons to
adopt into my family. Then my family
will often have a son. My mother-
in-law, Yen, also had a family
where this boy gave birth and then...  The
fortune teller said it was difficult to
raise the child, and if they did, they'd give him to Yen's mother-in-law's family
to raise because her mother-in-law has four
sons and one daughter, so raising the child was
easy. So they sent him over here to raise him more easily. But
the boy was born
sickly and weak, and the fortune teller
said he wouldn't live long. From that day on, that family regularly brought offerings and gifts to Yen's mother-in-law's house. The boy also had to bring things over all the time; in Buddhism, we call it giving alms, and that brings
blessings. That's the blessing of giving alms. And here, they adopted this boy as their
son. When they had a son, the
other family would often come to visit the boy's
family, bringing gifts and offerings. The family with the three daughters brought things over
to show their generosity. In this karmic connection, it's
all about
karma, maybe from a past life.
Whether it's grandparents or someone who has
been a parent before, if they lack something, they
bring offerings to
increase filial piety and
transform karma. The other family gave birth to a
son, but there
are many karmic connections involved. And if
this boy is adopted, there's
also shared karma
within that family. If you see that family
has karma, you must be vigilant
about it,
because it's just a karmic connection. Being born as someone's child
means there's some karmic connection
from a distant past, a family relationship.
Once you've been adopted,
you should live according to the principles of filial piety.
Depending on your ability, even if
you don't have to give your all like
your biological parents because they didn't raise you,
you should still participate
in the rituals and activities to the best of
your ability and according to your karmic connection. This will allow you to
contribute to the transformation of karma and receive blessings. That's all
good.  And if someone else has
some kind of karma, then maybe you also have a
little bit of karma in it because there
's a shared karma, you know? Yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah.